If you're an elder or you're reaching out to be one, then Peter's words have special meaning
for you. First Peter chapter five, he says, I make this appeal to the elders among you,
shepherd the flock of God. As elders, we may have many different assignments, but this is one
key responsibility. We are shepherds. Shepherds, doesn't that evoke a heartwarming picture?
You see a loyal man leading and feeding and protecting the sheep. So let's look at Peter's
instructions to shepherds and we're going to answer three important questions. Who owns the sheep?
What is the job of a spiritual shepherd? How does he keep the sheep safe?
Peter's instructions. I've turned to first Peter chapter five and we're going to start
at verse two. You may want to put a bookmark there. We're going to come back to this a lot.
First Peter five, two, shepherd the flock of God under your care, serving as overseers,
not under compulsion, but willingly before God, not for love of dishonest gain, but eagerly,
not lauding it over those who are God's inheritance, but becoming examples to the flock.
Who owns the sheep? They are the flock of God. And Peter goes further, he calls them in verse three,
God's inheritance. What does that mean to you? Well, the Apostle Paul used a similar point
and he helps us to understand it. In Acts chapter 20, he was talking to the elders in Ephesus.
Acts 20 verse 28, he tells them to shepherd the congregation of God which he purchased with the blood
of his own son. Jehovah paid the most precious price because he views the sheep as that precious.
And because we really love and want to please Jehovah, we take the same view. So coming back to
first Peter five and verse two, because of this, we serve not under compulsion, but willingly
before God. We want to please Jehovah, not for love of dishonest gain, but eagerly, because we love
the sheep as their owner, Jehovah does. Second question, what is the job of the shepherd? We're in
first Peter chapter five of us two. And he says, shepherd the flock, serving as overseers.
What does that mean to you? What is an overseer? Perhaps we think of him as the one who's in charge,
the one who makes the decisions. But is that what is meant here? Let's go back to Paul's words in
Acts chapter 20. If you'd like to turn there, Acts 20 and verse 28, remember Paul's talking to
elders. And he says, pay attention to yourselves into all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has
appointed you overseers to shepherd the congregation of God. You notice Paul does some of the
thing to what Peter does. He says that shepherds are overseers. Now in this verse, we have the benefit
of a study note. So if you can find the study note for overseers, the basic meaning to watch carefully
or to inspect. Now go about a quarter way down and you see a sentence that begins protective
supervision. Protective supervision is a basic idea inherent in the Greek term. Overseers in the
Christian congregation have the responsibility to care for spiritual concerns of their fellow
believers. So the key phrase, protective supervision. It's not about authority. Rather, it's about
care. It's about keeping the sheep well-fed, healthy, safe. How does an overseer care for spiritual
concerns of the sheep? We imagine someone approaches you as the elder. He's got a big decision
that he has to make. And so he asks, what should I do? For example, should I sign up for that
college course? Should I go into debt to buy that new car? Should I marry that sister? What are you
going to tell him? He comes to you as the shepherd because you perhaps have greater experience,
spiritual experience. It's easy to think, well, yes, I know exactly what's going to keep him safe.
So let me tell him what decision he should make. Would we do that? No, not really. Because if we
go back to 1 Peter 5, yes, it's true in verse 2, we serve as overseers. But then in verse 3,
Peter balances that he says, not lauding it over those who are God's inheritance. Right there,
notice we have a marginal reference. So tap on that little E and you'll see in the study
pain, 2 Corinthians 1 and verse 24. Paul made a similar point. He says, not that we are the
masters over your faith or literally the lords of your faith, but we are fellow workers for your joy,
for it is by your faith that you are standing. So the overseer doesn't make decisions for others.
Rather, he works closely with them to help them to understand and have faith in Jehovah's
Principles so that their decisions made in faith will give them an approved standing before Jehovah.
Then our dear carries through to the other role of a shepherd. So back to 1 Peter 5,
we were in verse 3 and not lauding it, Peter said, but becoming examples to the flock,
examples. Now again, this is not the kind of example where the shepherd says,
this is the way that I've done it, you should do it this way. Now his example is not a template
for others to follow that closely or exactly. Rather, it's more like what the apostle Paul described
when he talked to the Hebrews. If you wouldn't mind turning to Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 7.
In this case, Paul is talking to the sheep about the shepherds and in verse 7 he says,
remember those who are taking the lead among you who have spoken the word of God to you, not their
own word, the word of God. And as you contemplate how their conduct turns out, imitate their
faith. So we teach the sheep Jehovah's words and then as shepherds, the way we make decisions should
show such a deep faith in Jehovah's ways in his principles that our faith and the way our decisions
turn out should be a good example for the sheep. So what is the job of a shepherd carrying over
here? An example of faith. And did you notice that we really have covered the third question too?
How does the shepherd keep the sheep safe? Well, by word and by example, he builds a strong faith
in Jehovah so that the sheep are able through their faith to stand approved before Jehovah.
So shepherds, trainee shepherds, what have you learned from Peter's words? Who owns the sheep?
Well, these are Jehovah's precious sheep and we learn to view them exactly the same way and so
we look after them willingly. We are eager to care for them on Jehovah's behalf.
What is the job of the shepherd? He's the carrying overseer. He's an example of faith.
He provides protective supervision. How does he keep the sheep safe?
By his word and his example, he builds a strong faith in Jehovah.
An elder's life contains many different assignments but whatever else we do as elders,
we thank Jehovah that he has entrusted us with this one special privilege to shepherd his
precious sheep.